Hello, everybody. My name is Joshua, and…
This is the video for my digital research project.
So, for my project, I decided to explore
the topic of…
social media…
versus the student.
Especially when it comes to the mental health.
And how is… how social media is affecting our students.
academic performance and overall lives.
So, I wanted to…
I wanted to see what I could use to present this information. Of course, when we were presented
Uh, the assignment…
And we're giving… excuse me, we're given
Uh, multiple ways to present this.
I'm not… I wasn't sure which tool I was gonna use.
And I ultimately decided with Twine,
Simply because for that particular…
assignment, I believe I spent probably the most time on that one. It was extremely challenging.
Assignment for me, I was like, well, if it didn't challenge me, then it'll challenge me now.
And I want to be able to…
do storytelling in a way that I have never…
ever tried before, so…
Um, this was… I decided to use Twinery as my digital tool to present.
my research project, and…
Um… I wanted to be able to kind of give a narrative and go down different scenarios.
Um, so… just kind of dig into it a little bit.
Um, here's my, of course, my tools for digital humanities main page.
But we'll get to that a little bit later. I'm going to show you, get into the GitHub.
And kind of where we were.
Um, as well as our…
twinery.
So we go in here… I won't really bore you with all of the code and tracery, but I will let you…
Let's see where we were.
As far as the pathways that we created,
To get to our… oh…
my final product.
So, within Twinery, um, we created
pathways and stories, um…
to show not only the negative side of
too much social media consumption.
But also, I wanted to showcase or highlight
Um, different solutions that…
myself, students, whoever the viewer and or reader is,
Uh, can use to break those bad habits and become successful as a student.
Uh, and just as a person in general.
Um, and then we started off here at the top, and then we go into our choices.
Uh, and then from there, you can see that I went into 4 different categories.
academic decline, mental health decline, social isolation,
and physical consequences, with each having their own pathways and scenarios.
Um, that the player or the viewer could go through.
And… and see different scenarios.
And come to differing conclusions.
So, I did all of this, and I won't bore you with
all of the details, um…
like I said, I did want to… I did want to showcase some of those, uh…
creative outlets and find different ways that we can
Overcome. So, I went ahead and programmed it,
put in those… those pathways, uh, and I try to make it as short as possible.
the reader to…
get too bored with it.
And, uh, so I try to streamline it as much as possible.
But it… all of it revolved around…
Um…
the topic, which…
I think is one of the most, uh, pressing
Um…
issues that we have, uh, as students. And I say that as we, because it's something that I deal with as well.
Not saying that I conquered it totally, but I believe I've been able to create some habits that…
I'm able to utilize to…
provide, or to create better…
academic performance. So let's go back into…
our GitHub, I went ahead and went into the research project, uh…
File, and…
I'm like… unlike our professor, I…
took a…
I took a liking to HTML a little bit more than MD or Markdown.
And I was able to embed it here,
Uh… into the GitHub page.
went ahead and provided my sources.
A side note, while I was doing the research,
there was plenty…
of literature.
on this topic, way more than I thought so.
And using strictly…
the UCF Library.
I was able to, um, browse through and research and find what I needed.
Um, through the library.
And was able to…
find different things.
That solidified the solutions that I was able to provide. So we got that there.
And… alright, let's go back to my main page, project list.
research project…
And then here we are, my final research project. This was a big project, and it took many hours to create.
But I'm happy to present a tag of the phones a twine tail.
Um, so here we go.
A twine tail, let's see, does it pull up?
Yes, it does. Okay.
So, just a quick read. The world we live in revolves around connections through social media platforms.
For college students, this connection often comes at a cost. Overexposure to social media has been linked to depression,
Anxiety, poor study habits,
and sedentary lifestyles. This interactive story explores the consequences of social media overconsumption,
And the possible pathways towards healthier outcomes.
Where will your choices lead? And then, of course, we go ahead and click…
Here, and automatically we got 4 different pathways that we can choose from.
Um… and I usually, at this point, let the viewer go ahead and go through it, so let me just click through…
Let's see, the safe physical consequences… I'm a big…
workout, physical activity type of guy.
Hours of fitting with your phone leads to headaches, eye strain, and fatigue, physical inactivity becomes the norm, and your body begins to rebel.
sedentary lifestyle worsens, you're maybe creating a feedback loop of exhaustion, irritability, or excuse me, irritability.
Exercise, lifestyle changes, social activities… let's try exercise and lifestyle changes.
And then, of course, more pathways. Like I said, I love exercise, I love working out. Let's go ahead and use that one again.
you commit to daily, excuse me, short daily workouts, a jog, or even dance in your room, movement lifts your mood, reduces stress, and sharpens your focus.
Your body feels stronger, and your mind follows continue building healthier habits.
By embracing healthy habits,
Sleep, exercise, nutrition, and mindfulness, you reclaim control of your well-being. So this is your…
And, uh, goal, or I guess, say, your success.
A conclusion? Um, by following a healthier…
habit or lifestyle, which I said earlier would be a solution.
to what I would consider
a negative issue.
Uh, with us students. And then, of course, you go back to the home.
page, or your starting point, I guess is the best way I could say that.
You can go from there, and you can explore as the reader different pathways, go into the negative sides of things.
Actually, let's go ahead and try that. Um…
mental health decline, because that was the main thing.
I was attempting to tackle.
To use scrolling despite the pain.
And then I went ahead and made this pretty short, because…
I don't… you can go down a longer pathway, but…
at the end of it all, I believe
This was a great summary, um…
to show…
The end result of the overconsumption.
of social media. And then, of course, return to the start, and here we are.
So…
I'm not sure if you can see the other side of the screen. I have my abstract.
Their proposal when we first were introduced to the assignment, and of course, my annotated…
bibliography, um, that I was able to go through, which, like I said, was an extremely tedious
tedious, uh…
procedure or progression.
to find everything that I needed.
Um, and so, that there is.
my digital…
research project. Let's see if I can go back to…
My main page, there we go.
So, I hope you enjoyed, and feel free to go ahead and check out the Twined, and…
Go down those pathways.
I do appreciate your time, and have a great evening.